Add docs and update templates for Django-React integration (#84)
datamade/how-to: django/django-react-integration.md

# Django-React Integration

There are many ways of integrating Django and React. At DataMade, our preferred
method is a so-called "hybrid" approach, where Django builds React components into its templates

> by using a context variable for props and bundling components with Babel, Browserify, and

Author: I like this idea a lot. Done!

> by using a context variable for props and bundling components with Babel, Browserify, and

Reviewer: 💯!!

    - [Create a Django template for your React component](#create-a-django-template-for-your-react-component)
        - [Define a React root element](#define-a-react-root-element)
        - [Set React props and root element on the `window` object](#set-react-props-and-root-element-on-the-window-object)
        - [Bundle and load your component with `django-compressor`](#bundle-and-load-your-component-with-django-compressor)
        - [Putting it all together](#putting-it-all-together)  
- [Project fit considerations](#project-fit-considerations)
- [Further reading](#further-reading)

## Installation

Setting up a hybrid Django-React application requires installing a number of
Node packages, including Babel, Babelify, and Browserify, and then installing
and configuring `django-compressor` to use these packages to bundle your
React components.

**Note**: If you're using our [`new-django-app` Cookiecutter template](/docker/templates/)
to create your app, these installation steps will already be taken care of for you
and you can skip ahead to [Usage](#usage).

### Install Node packages

> Using `yarn add` or `npm install`, Update your `package.json` file to include

Author: Not that I can think of. I removed the note about `npm install`.

the following list of Node packages:

- `@babel/cli`
- `@babel/core`
- `@babel/preset-env`
- `@babel/preset-react`
- `babel-preset-env`
- `babelify`
- `browserify`

### Install and configure `django-compressor`

Update your `requirements.txt` file to install `django-compressor`. Then, set the
following settings in `settings.py` to instruct it to bundle your React components:

```python
STATICFILES_FINDERS = (
    'django.contrib.staticfiles.finders.FileSystemFinder',
    'django.contrib.staticfiles.finders.AppDirectoriesFinder',
    'compressor.finders.CompressorFinder',
)

COMPRESS_PRECOMPILERS = (
    ('module', 'npx browserify {infile} -t [ babelify --presets [ @babel/preset-env ] ] > {outfile}'),
    ('text/jsx', 'npx browserify {infile} -t [ babelify --presets [ @babel/preset-env @babel/preset-react ] ] > {outfile}'),
)

COMPRESS_OUTPUT_DIR = 'compressor'
```

> ### Set up caching

Author: Awesome!

#### Define a React root element

The template needs to have an element that React can use as a root to mount
your component. For a better user experience, make sure to embed a loading animation
like a spinner in this element so the user can see that your component is rendering.

As an example, a simple root element might look like this:

```html
<div id="App">
  <!-- Contents get replaced by mounted React.Component -->
  <div class="text-center">
    <i class="fa fa-lg fa-spinner fa-spin"></i><br><br>
    <i class="pending">Loading components...</i><br><br>
  </div>
</div>
```

#### Set React props and root element on the `window` object

In order to make your props and root element available to your React component, add
a simple script to the end of your template to set them on the global `window`
object.

```html
{{ props|json_script:"props" }}  // Serialize and safely sanitize the props
<script type="text/javascript">
  window.props = JSON.parse(document.getElementById('props').textContent)
  window.reactMount = document.getElementById('App')
</script>
```

#### Bundle and load your component with `django-compressor`

> Finally, use the `compress` templatetag provided by `django-compressor` and the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, use the `compress` template tag provided by `django-compressor` and the
```

> `view.component` attribute to bundle and load your component as an external script.

Reviewer: Where does `view.component` come from?

Author: It's set on the view for this template in the section `Define a view with a path to your component` above:

> Define a Django view that includes a `component` attribute with a staticfile
> path to the component you've defined, as well as the typical `template_name`
> attribute representing the path to a Django template. The combination of these
> two attributes will allow us to render the component in the view's template.
>
> ```python
> class Home(TemplateView):
>     title = 'Home'
>     template_name = 'my_new_app/index.html'
>     component = 'js/pages/index.js'  # Staticfile path to your component code
> ```

I'll adjust the wording here to make it a little bit clearer where `view.component` is coming from.
